---
layout: post
title: MY WORK AT AVIDBOTS CORP.
subtitle: A Reflection on My Role

# cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: assets/img/Avidbots/Neo2.png
tags: [robotics]
comments: true
categories: experience
---
Avidbots Corp embarked on a project to create a new robot, where I played a key role in developing a new AMR navigation sensor layout.

 I integrated various sensors into the Autonomy, calibration, and monitoring systems, requiring expertise in robotic development and software. Additionally, I led the transition of an autonomous robot prototype from simulation to hardware, involving careful coordination and problem-solving across teams.

### Actions

#### Development and Prototyping of AMR Navigation Sensor Layout
- **3D Design:** Utilized Onshape for 3D design, 3D printing and sheet metal design, prototyping a new layout for AMR navigation sensors: Lidars, 3D sensors and RGB cameras..
- **Driver Development:** Employed C++ and Python to develop the ROS drivers necessary for integrating RGB cameras, Lidars, and 3D cameras into the system. 
- **Sensor Integration:** Integrated various sensors into Autonomy,calibration and monitoring systems.
- **Sensor Qualification:** Conducted sensor qualification tests to ensure the functionality of the sensors with the system. The system is a safety critical system and the sensors are a key component of the system.

#### Robotic Experiment Design
- Designed and conducted experiments to test the performance of the AMR navigation sensor layout and other perception metrics
- Conducted 2D and 3D vision data analysis on experiment data and for sensor testing and qualification.

#### Transition from Simulation to Hardware
- Successfully led the transition of a new autonomous robot prototype from simulation to hardware.
- Resolved incompatibilities through meticulous data analysis, cross-team coordination, and code updates.

#### Rapid Prototyping Space Management
- Initiated and managed a space dedicated to rapid prototyping, fostering innovation across software teams and advanced technology teams, and enabling faster development cycles.

#### Tools and Technologies Employed
- Utilized Linux, ROS, C++, Python, Bash, and Onshape to accomplish various tasks related to design, development, and integration.

### Impact

1. **Enhanced Sensor Integration:** The development and prototyping of a new Lidar, Led to the design of a laser manager that can accommodate different lidar models. 

2. **Successful Transition to Hardware:** By leading the transition from simulation to hardware for the autonomous robot prototype, I ensured the compatibility and readiness of the system, moving it closer to real-world application.
   
3. **Innovation Acceleration:** By initiating and managing a rapid prototyping space, I helped accelerate the pace of innovation within the team, fostering creativity and enabling faster development cycles.
   
4. **Comprehensive Skill Utilization:** My work at Avidbots demonstrated the application of various technical skills including programming (C++, Python, Bash), 3D design (OnShape), hardware integration and debugging, and theoretical knowledge (Linear Algebra, Probability, Control Systems), reflecting a overall approach to problem-solving in the realm of autonomy and robotics.

### Improvements

1. One of the main things I learned at avidbots is to invest in automating manual processes, such as manual calibrations. 

2. I am also improving on software development and software engineering practices.

### Next Steps

1. I have decided to build my own autonomous robot as A side project, and I am currently working on the design and development of the robot. This will help me improve my skills in all different aspects of robotics and autonomy.

2. I am also looking for opportunities that allign with my interests, in robtoics or mechatronics domain.