---
layout: post
title: MY WORK AT AVIDBOTS CORP.
subtitle: A Reflection on My Role
# gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
# gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
# cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: assets/img/Avidbots/Neo2.png
tags: [robotics]
comments: true
---
Avidbots Corp embarked on a project to create a new robot, where I played a key role in developing a new AMR navigation sensor layout. I integrated various sensors into the Autonomy, calibration, and monitoring systems, requiring expertise in robotic development and software. Additionally, I led the transition of an autonomous robot prototype from simulation to hardware, involving careful coordination and problem-solving across teams.

### Actions

#### Development and Prototyping of AMR Navigation Sensor Layout
- **3D Design:** Utilized Onshape for 3D design, 3D printing and sheet metal design, prototyping a new layout for AMR navigation sensors: Lidars, 3D sensors and RGB cameras..
- **Driver Development:** Employed C++ and Python to develop the drivers necessary for integrating RGB cameras, lidars, and 3D cameras into the system. 
- **Sensor Integration:** Integrated various sensors into Autonomy,calibration and monitoring systems.
- **Sensor Qualification:** Conducted sensor qualification tests to ensure the functionilty of the sensors with the system. The system is a safety critical system and the sensors are a key component of the system.

#### Robotic Experiment Design
- Designed and conducted experiments to test the performance of the AMR navigation sensor layout and other perceptino metrics
- Conducted 2D and 3D vision data analysis on experiment data and for sensor testing and qualification.

#### Transition from Simulation to Hardware
- Successfully led the transition of a new autonomous robot prototype from simulation to hardware.
- Resolved incompatibilities through meticulous data analysis, cross-team coordination, and code updates.

#### Rapid Prototyping Space Management
- Initiated and managed a space dedicated to rapid prototyping, fostering innovation across software teams and advanced technology teams, and enabling faster development cycles.

#### Tools and Technologies Employed
- Utilized Linux, ROS, C++, Python, Bash, and Onshape to accomplish various tasks related to design, development, and integration.

### Impact

1. **Enhanced Sensor Integration:** The development and prototyping of a new Lidar, Led to the design of a laser manager that can accomodate different lidar models. 

2. **Successful Transition to Hardware:** By leading the transition from simulation to hardware for the autonomous robot prototype, you ensured the compatibility and readiness of the system, moving it closer to real-world application.
   
3. **Innovation Acceleration:** By initiating and managing a rapid prototyping space, you helped accelerate the pace of innovation within the team, fostering creativity and enabling faster development cycles.
   
4. **Comprehensive Skill Utilization:** My work at Avidbots demonstrated the application of various technical skills including programming (C++, Python, Bash), 3D design (OnShape), and theoretical knowledge (Linear Algebra, Probability, Control Systems), reflecting a holistic approach to problem-solving in the realm of autonomy and robotics.

### Improvements

1. One of the main things I learned at avidbots is to invest the time to do things right once, and automate manual processes, and try not to revisit the problem after it is being solved. For example, automating manual calibration processes, writing software tools to automate everyday tasks and data analysis.

2. I am also improving on software development and software engineering practices, focusing on improving my multi-threading and design patterns.

### Next Steps

1. I have decided to to build my own autonomous robot as side project, and I am currently working on the design and development of the robot. This will help me to improve my skills get exposed to all different aspects of robotics and autonomy.

2. I am also working to better myself as a software engineer finizling an [advanced C++ course](https://www.udacity.com/course/c-plus-plus-nanodegree--nd213){:target="_blank"} and [modern C++ Design Patterns](https://www.udemy.com/course/patterns-cplusplus/){:target="_blank"} and software engienering practices.
